Source: The American Presidency Project, University of California Santa Barbara
URL: https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-exchange-with-reporters-prior-the-2026-federation-internationale-des-associations
Page title: Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw
Date shown on page: December 05, 2025
Retrieval/capture: Browser open during plaintiff merits investigation, 2026-06-29T19:56:00Z. This is a focused text extract of relevant page text and headings.

Relevant page text:

# Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw

December 05, 2025

[The President's remarks were joined in progress.]

The President. It's a great honor to be here. Gianni has done a fantastic job. We're setting records—[inaudible].

2026 World Cup Draw Event

Q. Will you root for some selection? Will you root for someone?

The President. Well, I root for a lot of countries, but in this case, I'll be rooting for the U.S.A. [Laughter]

2026 World Cup

Q. What can fans expect of, like, the World Cup in the U.S.?
The President. I think it's going to be fantastic. We've set every record you can set.

Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) President Giovanni V. Infantino

Q. [Inaudible]—friend Gianni—[inaudible]—a word about him?
The President. I think he has done a fantastic job.

[At this point, the President and Mr. Infantino posed for photographs.]
The President. Thank you, everybody.

2026 World Cup Draw Event/John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Q. Mr. President, what do you think about the crowd?
The President. Oh, look, the new star—[inaudible].
Congratulations.
Q. Thank you.
The President. You're the new star of television and Fox.
Q. Thank you. How are you doing, Mr. President?
The President. I'm doing very well.
Q. What do you think about the crowd here?
The President. I think the crowd is great, and I think the building is great. We've made a lot of improvements over the last 6 months. Taking—the Kennedy Center was in very bad shape. Now it's getting to be really good. And in 6 months, it's going to be incredible with the improvements we've made.
Q. The first time for the U.S. to host since the nineties.
The President. Right.
Q. Are you ready for it?
The President. I'm ready for it, and they're ready for it. And Gianni, who you know——
Mr. Infantino. Yes.
The President. ——has done a fantastic job with FIFA. And we're looking to have—you know, we're set—we have already set records for tickets sales. I don't think there's ever been anything like it in any sport. And so, I want to congratulate you.
Mr. Infantino. Thank you.
The President. I don't even have to wait. But major records have been set.

2026 World Cup Draw Event

Q. So can you tell me about this big day today?
The President. It's just a big day, and it's a great sport. And it really is coming to America. And never—nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. And I'm very happy to say that we've already set the alltime record on ticket sales long before the first ball is kicked. Right?
Mr. Infantino. A hundred percent. One hundred percent.

The President's Interest in Soccer

Q. Should there be a special final: American—[inaudible]?
The President. No, but I got to meet Ronaldo the other day, came to the White House. He was fantastic. He's a handsome guy and a great guy. And my son Barron and him—and they had a big conversation. And my son loves soccer—"football," as you would say. But Ronaldo is great. He's a great guy. He's got the whole package. He's a great player.

Thank you very much. Thank you. [Inaudible]

2026 World Cup Draw/Ticket Sales for World Cup

Q. How does it feel to be part of this amazing event? And obviously, your being a part of participating in all the—[i naudible]?
The President. The President of Mexico is here, and she's doing a very good job. She's a good woman, very, very excellent job. It's an honor, and we're setting every record, and you're helping us set those records.
Mr. Infantino. And we will do it.
The President. You know, Mexico and Canada are helping us set those records. But as you know, we have a record in ticket sales already, long before the first ball is kicked, and we're going to do great.
I think that Gianni—as you know, he's the head, and he has done a fantastic job.

2026 World Cup Draw Event

Q. Hello, Mr. President. How are you? This for Telemundo.
The President. How are you? Good.
Q. How are you?
The President. Very good. Thank you.
Q. How does it feel to have the most important event of sports—that global—in the U.S.?
The President. Well, we do. And right at the Kennedy Center. I'm Chairman of the Kennedy Center. And I hear the Kennedy Center is doing a very good job, so it feels great. Really good.

The President's Interest in Soccer

Q. Did you ever play soccer—or football?
The President. Believe it or not, I did. I did, and I loved it. I had a—I was okay. I wouldn't say—I was not Ronaldo or Messi. I was a little bit short of them. [Laughter] But——
Mr. Infantino. Just a little bit.
The President. But they have a little more speed.
But no, I was fine. But I loved playing soccer.

2026 World Cup

The President. What?
Q. [Inaudible]
The President. Well, it's going to be incredible. The event is going to be very good. Just this event alone—it's at the Kennedy Center. I see you have it fixed up perfectly.
Mr. Infantino. It will set the tone.
The President. Right? It's beautiful.
Mr. Infantino. It's beautiful.
The President. It's a beautiful place.
Have a good time.

Note preserved from case-packet transcript for provenance/limitations: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 8, 2025, with a corrected transcript released on January 2, 2026. Portions of these remarks could not be verified because the audio was incomplete.