Source: ABC News, "'This Week' Transcript 1-4-26: Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and San Francisco Mayor Daniel Lurie," by ABC News, January 4, 2026, 9:48 AM. Retrieved/extracted 2026-06-29T23:56:48Z.

ABC's opening video clip states: George Stephanopoulos: "Regime change." Gen. Dan Caine: "The United States military conducted an apprehension mission in Caracas, Venezuela." Stephanopoulos: "Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and his wife are captured by U.S. forces as large-scale strikes rock Venezuela's capital. President Trump declares the U.S. will take over the country." Trump: "Because we're going to run it essentially until such time as a proper transition can take place." Stephanopoulos then describes "The stunning attack following months of military build-up in the region and dozens of deadly strikes on alleged drug boats."

Stephanopoulos introduction: Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro is being held at the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn, "swept out of office by Army Delta Forces on the orders of President Trump." He says Trump and his team claim it was a legal law-enforcement operation, but the military mission had no congressional approval, and Trump declared the U.S. will run Venezuela and take control of its oil.

Martha Raddatz package: Raddatz calls it "a stunning operation in the dark of night, and an extraordinary declaration from President Trump." Trump: "We are going to run the country until such time as we can do a safe, proper and judicious transition." Raddatz says the remarks followed what appeared to be a precision U.S. military and law enforcement raid in Venezuela's capital city, dubbed Operation Absolute Resolve, the culmination of months of preparation, with more than 150 military aircraft launching from 20 different bases and ships. Gen. Caine says the force included F-22s, F-35s, F-18s, EA-18s, E-2s, B-1 bombers and other support aircraft, plus remotely piloted drones. Raddatz reports that nearly a dozen helicopters swept low over the ocean; warplanes targeted Venezuela's air defense system and military targets, allowing helicopters carrying the extraction team to reach Maduro and his wife at their compound. Trump said: "The men and women of our military, working with U.S. law enforcement, successfully captured Maduro in the dead of night. It was a lot of opposition. There was a lot of gunfight." Raddatz reports Trump was not afraid of U.S. boots on the ground to enforce U.S. goals and insisted Venezuela's oil infrastructure would be a top priority. Trump said U.S. oil companies would go in, spend billions, fix the oil infrastructure, and start making money for the country.

Raddatz says Maduro's vice president, Delcy Rodriguez, is now interim president, with Trump making clear he wants her to do what the U.S. wants; Raddatz also notes Rodriguez was defiant, saying Maduro is still president and what the U.S. did in Venezuela is a barbarity.

Matt Rivers reports from the region that people inside Venezuela are waiting to see who will govern day to day and worry about what comes after Trump's announcement that the U.S. will "run the government," without real specifics.

Rubio interview: Stephanopoulos asks under what legal authority President Trump said the United States was going to run Venezuela. Rubio answers that the U.S. has a quarantine on Venezuelan oil and that Venezuela's economy will not move forward until conditions in the national interest of the United States and Venezuelan people are met. Stephanopoulos asks again whether the U.S. is running Venezuela. Rubio says: "What we are running is the direction that this is going to move moving forward," through leverage and an armada of boats positioned to seize sanctioned oil boats going into or out of Venezuela. Rubio says this continues until those controlling the levers of power make changes in the interests of Venezuela and the United States.

Asked why congressional authorization was unnecessary, Rubio says: "It wasn't necessary because this is not an invasion. We didn't occupy a country. This was an arrest operation. This was a law enforcement operation. He was arrested on the ground in Venezuela by FBI agents, read his rights and removed from the country." Rubio adds that it was not friendly territory, so the Department of War became involved; "The Department of War went in. They hit anything that was a threat to the agents that were going in to arrest him, and they hit anything that was a threat on the way out. And they hit anything that was a threat to them while they were on the ground." He characterizes it as a very limited and targeted, trigger-based operation.

Senator Schumer says in response that the United States "went inside Venezuela, bombed civilian as well as military places" without congressional authorization. In the roundtable, Associated Press executive editor Julie Pace says AP journalists on the ground in Venezuela reported no visible sign of U.S. presence and no sign of the U.S. running Venezuela right now, making the meaning uncertain.

Weight note: ABC is a credible media transcript and includes both supportive facts (military strikes, air defense targets, helicopters, run-the-country/oil language, Department of War involvement) and adverse facts (Rubio denial of invasion/occupation; AP no visible presence immediately after).