Epstein's purported suicide note unsealed by judge: Read the full text | FOX 4 Dallas-Fort Worth
By Catherine Stoddard, FOX Local
Published May 6, 2026 6:30 PM CDT

Headline: Epstein's purported suicide note unsealed by judge: Read the full text.

The page states: "A note that may have been written by the late Jeffrey Epstein was unsealed by a federal judge. The note appears to read in part: 'It is a treat to be able to choose one's time to say goodbye.'"

The Brief section states: A federal judge on Wednesday unsealed the purported suicide note of the late Jeffrey Epstein. The handwritten note appeared to reference past investigations. The note had stayed locked and sealed for nearly five years.

The article states: A note that may have been written by the late Jeffrey Epstein was unsealed by a federal judge on Wednesday. The note was sealed for years as part of a criminal case involving Epstein's cellmate, Nicholas Tartaglione.

Dig deeper section: U.S. District Judge Kenneth Karas ruled the document should be made public, finding no sufficient reason to keep it sealed. The page includes an image described as taken from court documents showing a purported suicide note written by Jeffrey Epstein, credited to U.S. District Court - Southern District of New York.

The article states that few people had known about the note until Tartaglione, a former police officer serving a life sentence for killing four people, mentioned it last year on writer Jessica Reed Kraus' podcast. Tartaglione claimed he discovered the note in a book after Epstein was found on the floor of their cell at a Manhattan federal jail on July 23, 2019, with a strip of bedsheet around the financier's neck.

What they're saying section: The note appears to read as follows: "They investigated me for months - Found nothing!!! It is a treat to be able to choose one's time to say goodbye. Watcha want me to do - Bust out cryin!! No fun - Not worth it!"

The backstory section states Epstein was found dead in his cell at the Metropolitan Correctional Center on Aug. 10, 2019 while awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. The medical examiner ruled it a suicide and authorities pointed to jail personnel missteps.

The Source section states information for the article was taken from government court documents and reporting by The New York Times and The Associated Press.