Title: Iran cancels US nuclear talks next round amid 'barbarous' Israeli attacks
Source URL: https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2025/6/14/iran-says-nuclear-talks-with-us-meaningless-as-trump-pushes-for-a-deal
Publisher: Al Jazeera English
Article date: June 14, 2025
Retrieved: 2026-06-30T17:00:00Z

Extracted relevant page text:
Earlier, Iran had clearly intimated that the continuation of nuclear talks with the US was unjustifiable while 'barbarous' Israeli attacks target the nation, Iranian state media reported, quoting Araghchi.

It seemed inevitable that the talks would fall victim to the sudden, massive escalation by Israel and Iran's retaliation.

Tehran branded dialogue over its nuclear programme with the US as 'meaningless' after Israel launched its biggest-ever military strike against Iran, which Tehran accuses Washington, DC, of supporting.

'The other side [the US] acted in a way that makes dialogue meaningless. You cannot claim to negotiate and at the same time divide work by allowing the Zionist regime [Israel] to target Iran's territory,' Iran's semiofficial Tasnim news agency quoted Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Esmaeil Baghaei as saying on Saturday.

The US has denied the Iranian allegation of being complicit in Israel's attacks and told Tehran at the United Nations Security Council that it would be 'wise' to negotiate over its nuclear programme.

US President Donald Trump has called the Israeli attacks on Iran 'excellent' after initially warning Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu against action that could jeopardise nuclear talks.

Trump on Friday framed the volatile conflict with Israel as a possible 'second chance' for Iran's leadership to avoid further destruction, 'before there is nothing left and save what was once known as the Iranian Empire'.

The sixth round of US-Iran nuclear talks was set to be held on Sunday in Oman.

Iran denies that its uranium enrichment programme is for anything other than civilian purposes, rejecting Israeli allegations that it is secretly developing nuclear weapons. Netanyahu has pledged to continue the attacks for 'as many days as it takes' to stop Iran from developing a 'nuclear threat'.

Trump has blamed Iran for rejecting US proposals on uranium enrichment and has warned of more brutal Israeli strikes ahead.