Title: Zionists' coordination with Americans amid Iran-US talks proves Washington's insincerity: President Pezeshkian
Source URL: https://president.ir/en/159792
Publisher: Official Website of the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran
Visible page metadata: News ID: 159792; 2025/06/14 | 19:11
Retrieved: 2026-06-30T17:00:00Z

Extracted relevant page text:
President Masoud Pezeshkian said that the continued aggression by the Zionist regime against Iran will be met with a more powerful and severe response from the Iranian Armed Forces.

In a phone conversation with Pakistan's Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Saturday, President Pezeshkian expressed gratitude to the Pakistani government's stance at a Friday night UN Security Council meeting on the Zionist regime's aggression against Iran.

The Zionist regime violates all international regulations with the support of the United States and Western countries, the president said, adding that war has its own rules, but the regime violates them due to such backings.

Regarding Iran's response to attacks by the Zionist regime, he said that if the Islamic Republic was not able to defend its territory in the face of the criminal and child-killing regime, Iranians would witness everyday acts of aggression and massacre by the regime, said President Pezeshkian.

However, he added, Iran powerfully destroyed stealth military equipment of the regime, emphasizing that Israel will receive a more powerful and severe response by the Iranian Armed Forces if it continues its aggression.

The ongoing aggression shows that why Iran must enhance its defense power, Pezeshkian said, noting that the Islamic Republic has always sought to strengthen peace and security in the region and worldwide, but the recent developments indicate that if Iran does not have powerful defense capabilities, it may face such acts of aggression by the criminal regime.

The president also stated that the Zionist regime's coordination with the US in violating Iran's territorial integrity in the midst of indirect negotiations between Tehran and Washington is a sign of the United States' dishonesty and untrustworthiness.

In response, Sharif emphasized Pakistan's support for Iran, saying that the Zionist regime's aggression against the Islamic Republic is the violation of all international laws, which he condemned. He also expressed condolences on the martyrdom of a number of Iranian civilians, officials and scientists.

The Pakistani prime minister also expressed hope for peace and tranquility, noting that the Zionist regime commits all these crimes with impunity, which violate the UN Charter and international regulations.

He further said that his country is ready to help return Iranian Hajj pilgrims to Iran, asking President Pezeshkian to convey his greetings to the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei.