Source: U.S. Department of War / Pentagon News
Title: Trump Announces U.S. Military's Capture of Maduro
Byline/date: Jan. 3, 2026 | By Matthew Olay, Pentagon News
URL: https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4370431/trump-announces-us-militarys-capture-of-maduro/
Retrieval timestamp: 2026-06-30T00:44:00Z

Relevant extracted text:

President Donald J. Trump today announced the capture of Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro, following a successful overnight joint U.S. military extraction in Venezuela's capital of Caracas.

Caption/description for press conference image: President Donald J. Trump holds a press conference in Palm Beach, Fla., Jan. 3, 2026, with Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Secretary of War Pete Hegseth, second from right, and Air Force Gen. Dan Caine, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to discuss Operation Absolute Resolve in Caracas, Venezuela.

"Last night and early today, at my direction, the United States armed forces conducted an extraordinary military operation in the capital of Venezuela. ... It was an operation against a heavily fortified military fortress in the heart of Caracas to bring outlaw dictator Nicolas Maduro to justice," Trump said during a midday news conference from his Mar-a-Lago residence in Palm Beach, Florida.

The president added that both Maduro and his also-captured wife, Cilia Flores de Maduro, will now face criminal court proceedings tied to a 2020 indictment from the U.S. Department of Justice on multiple federal charges, including narco-terrorism and drug trafficking.

Earlier in the day, Trump posted a photo to social media showing a blindfolded and handcuffed Nicolas Maduro in custody aboard the U.S. Navy amphibious assault ship USS Iwo Jima.

Labeled Operation Absolute Resolve, the joint military and law enforcement mission to capture the Maduros was the result of months of planning and rehearsal involving U.S. joint forces -- including special operations forces -- from multiple service branches. The military also networked extensively with multiple U.S. intelligence agencies, according to Air Force Gen. Dan Caine, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

"Our interagency work began months ago and built on decades of experience [with] integrating complex air, ground, space and maritime operations. ... We watched, we waited, we prepared, we remained patient and professional. ... This was an audacious operation that only the United States could do," Caine said during the press conference.

He added that the mission to extract the Maduros -- in which there were no U.S. casualties -- was so precise that it involved more than 150 military aircraft from all across the Western Hemisphere launching in close coordination to provide cover for the ground-based extraction force in Caracas.

"Words can barely capture the bravery and the power and the precision of this historic operation, a massive joint military and law enforcement raid flawlessly executed by the greatest Americans our country has to offer," Secretary of War Pete Hegseth, who was also in attendance at Mar-a-Lago, told the media.

Capture notes: This is an extracted text capture rather than full-page HTML. The page was opened through web tooling and relevant lines were preserved. This official source is strong for U.S. admissions about location, military forces, planning, air/ground/maritime integration, special operations involvement, and a ground extraction force in Caracas; it is also adverse in framing the operation partly as law enforcement and criminal-justice related.