The Guardian article title: "Alleged suicide note written by Jeffrey Epstein unsealed by federal judge." Standfirst: "Epstein's cellmate in New York City says he found note after convicted sexual offender attempted suicide in July 2019." By Mollie Reilly and Uwa Ede-Osifo. Publication timestamp shown: Wed 6 May 2026 20.44 EDT; first published Wed 6 May 2026 19.11 EDT.

The article reports: "A federal judge unsealed an alleged suicide note written by Jeffrey Epstein on Wednesday, the first time the document has been made public." It reports that Epstein's cellmate at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York City, Nicholas Tartaglione, said he found the note after Epstein unsuccessfully attempted suicide in July 2019, weeks before Epstein was later found dead in jail.

The page includes an image caption: "The alleged Epstein suicide note. Photograph: United States district judge, southern district of New York."

The article quotes the note as saying: "They investigated me for months - FOUND NOTHING!!!" and "It is a treat to be able to choose one's time to say goodbye. Watcha want me to do - Bust out cryin!! NO FUN - NOT WORTH IT!!"

Adverse/contextual points in the same article: "The note does not include a signature." The Guardian states it "has not verified whether the letter was written by Epstein." The article reports the note was unsealed after the New York Times published a story detailing its existence and petitioned the court in White Plains, New York, to release it. It also reports Tartaglione was serving life in prison for a quadruple murder conviction, that Epstein had told prison officials he had been attacked by Tartaglione, and that in the weeks preceding death Epstein maintained he was not suicidal. The article says after the alleged note came into Tartaglione's possession, he passed it to his legal team as a possible defense against future assault allegations from Epstein, and the lawyers enlisted handwriting experts to authenticate the note's author.