Source: GovInfo PDF DCPD-202501162, "Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Federation Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw".
Date shown in PDF: December 5, 2025.
PDF opening text: "Administration of Donald J. Trump, 2025" and title "Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Federation Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw". The transcript begins: "[The President's remarks were joined in progress.]"

Material transcript extract from the GovInfo-rendered PDF:

2026 World Cup Draw Event/John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Q. Mr. President, what do you think about the crowd?
The President. Oh, look, the new star--[inaudible].
Congratulations.
Q. Thank you.
The President. You're the new star of television and Fox.
Q. Thank you. How are you doing, Mr. President?
The President. I'm doing very well.
Q. What do you think about the crowd here?
The President. I think the crowd is great, and I think the building is great. We've made a lot of improvements over the last 6 months. Taking--the Kennedy Center was in very bad shape. Now it's getting to be really good. And in 6 months, it's going to be incredible with the improvements we've made.
Q. The first time for the U.S. to host since the nineties.
The President. Right.
Q. Are you ready for it?
The President. I'm ready for it, and they're ready for it. And Gianni, who you know--
Mr. Infantino. Yes.
The President. --has done a fantastic job with FIFA. And we're looking to have--you know, we're set--we have already set records for tickets sales. I don't think there's ever been anything like it in any sport. And so, I want to congratulate you.
Mr. Infantino. Thank you.
The President. I don't even have to wait. But major records have been set.

2026 World Cup Draw Event
Q. So can you tell me about this big day today?
The President. It's just a big day, and it's a great sport. And it really is coming to America. And never--nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. And I'm very happy to say that we've already set the alltime record on ticket sales long before the first ball is kicked. Right?
Mr. Infantino. A hundred percent. One hundred percent.

The President's Interest in Soccer
Q. Should there be a special final: American--[inaudible]?
The President. No, but I got to meet Ronaldo the other day, came to the White House. He was fantastic. He's a handsome guy and a great guy. And my son Barron and him--and they had a big conversation. And my son loves soccer--"football," as you would say. But Ronaldo is great. He's a great guy. He's got the whole package. He's a great player.
Thank you very much. Thank you. [Inaudible]

GovInfo content-details metadata extract:
Document Categories: Interviews With the News Media: Exchanges with reporters, Washington, DC.
Subjects include: Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup; John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; News media, Presidential interviews; Soccer.
Names include: Infantino, Giovanni V.; Messi, Lionel; Ronaldo, Cristiano; Trump, Barron W.
Locations: Washington, DC.
Notes: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 8, 2025, with a corrected transcript released on January 2, 2026. Portions of these remarks could not be verified because the audio was incomplete.

Extraction limitations: This is a text extract, not the full PDF file. The official PDF source URL and details-page metadata are preserved above. Bracketed [inaudible] markers are present in the source, but the Ronaldo passage itself is readable in the extracted text.