Source: GovInfo, DCPD202501162, official HTML page: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/DCPD-202501162/html/DCPD-202501162.htm
Content details page: https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/DCPD-202501162
Title in source: "Remarks in an Exchange With Reporters Prior to the 2026 Fédération Internationale des Associations de Football (FIFA) World Cup Draw December 5, 2025"

Opening source note: "[The President's remarks were joined in progress.]"

Relevant extracted transcript text:

"2026 World Cup Draw Event/John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Q. Mr. President, what do you think about the crowd? The President. Oh, look, the new star-[inaudible]. Congratulations."

"Q. Today it's not football-American football. It's soccer. It's--
The President. Right.
Q. --the big event of soccer.
The President. That's right. That's right.

2026 World Cup Draw Event
Q. So can you tell me about this big day today?
The President. It's just a big day, and it's a great sport. And it really is coming to America. And never-nobody ever thought a thing like this could happen. And I'm very happy to say that we've already set the alltime record on ticket sales long before the first ball is kicked. Right?"

"The President's Interest in Soccer
Q. Should there be a special final: American-[inaudible]?
The President. No, but I got to meet Ronaldo the other day, came to the White House. He was fantastic. He's a handsome guy and a great guy. And my son Barron and him-and they had a big conversation. And my son loves soccer-'football,' as you would say. But Ronaldo is great. He's a great guy. He's got the whole package. He's a great player."

"The President's Interest in Soccer
Q. Did you ever play soccer-or football?
The President. Believe it or not, I did. I did, and I loved it. I had a-I was okay. I wouldn't say-I was not Ronaldo or Messi. I was a little bit short of them. [Laughter] But--
Mr. Infantino. Just a little bit.
The President. But they have a little more speed. But no, I was fine. But I loved playing soccer."

Contextual timing extracted from later transcript sequence:
"Q. What will they [hear] today?
The President. Even today, I understand. I hear that, you know--
Mr. Infantino. Yes.
The President. --I know we're a little late to get in there, but--
Mr. Infantino. Yes.
The President. --that's okay.
Mr. Infantino. They wait.
The President. So all my friends, I guess they have to wait. They have no choice, right? [Laughter]
Mr. Infantino. Yes, they wait."

Source note near end of GovInfo page:
"NOTE: The President spoke at 11:13 a.m. at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. In his remarks, he referred to Trey Yingst, chief foreign correspondent, Fox News Channel; Cristiano Ronaldo, forward for Saudi Pro League club Al-Nass and Portugal's national soccer team; and Lionel Messi, forward for Major League Soccer club Inter Miami and Argentina's national team. A reporter referred to New York State Attorney General Letitia James. The transcript was released by the Office of Communications on December 8, 2025, with a corrected transcript released on January 2, 2026. Portions of these remarks could not be verified because the audio was incomplete."

GovInfo content details metadata observed on details page:
Category: Budget and Presidential Materials; Collection: Compilation of Presidential Documents; Publisher: Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration; Event Date: December 5, 2025; President: Donald J. Trump; Document Categories: Interviews With the News Media: Exchanges with reporters, Washington, DC; Locations: Washington, DC; Names include Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi.